closure {prototypes...} Returns a closure which can be provided to tabcompleters or run manually,
which provides an easy to use syntax for simple to moderately complex tab completion scenarios. Note that
this cannot be used in all cases, particularly where there are variable length arguments. In these cases,
it's best to write the closure yourself.
----
In general, the prototypes can be one of five values, a string, a ClassType of an enum type, an array, a closure,
or an associative array. Strings represent "prebaked" classes, and are listed below:

- Player - Online players ({function|all_players} equivalent, but more efficient)
- OfflinePlayer - All known players ({function|get_offline_players} equivalent)
- Boolean - Equivalent to array("true", "false")
- None - Returns an empty array, disabling tab complete for this value. This is useful for open fields, such as \
random strings, or a number.

ClassTypes must be enum values, and will autocomplete with the list of values in that enum.

Arrays are simply returned as is.

Closures are passed in the same values as the tabcompleter, and are expected to return an array. This is useful when
the completion logic varies based on the arguments passed in, such as the current player executing the tabcompleter.

Associative arrays are used when you need to provide dynamic functionality based on previous arguments. Only enum or
array values are supported as "previous" arguments.
The keys of the array are used to determine which value is selected, and the values of
the array are one of the above completion types. The keys follow the general format of "<enumValue" where "<" means that
we're comparing to the previous value, and "enumValue" is the selector that was entered by the user. "<" can also point
to more than one previous value, so for instance "<<enumValue" would also work, meaning compare to the argument provided
two prior. If you have multiple selectors that have the same handler, they can be combined into one pipe separated
string, for instance "<enumValue1|<enumValue2". Given that you can mix multiple argument selector types, it's possible
you have a conflict, in this case, the behavior is undefined, so it's recommended that you don't mix argument depth
indicators (don't use < and << in the same group). Using "<" as a key is the default value, and is what is used if
nothing else matches. In case no keys match, then no completions will be provided.

In all cases, once the list of completions has been determined, it is compared against the existing input so far
of the user, and only matches that start with the current input are returned.

Calling get_tabcomplete_prototype with no arguments disables tab completion (always returns an empty array).