Designing a language isn't straightforward. However, there are a few guiding principals
that are used in the design of the language, though these are guidelines, not hard
and fast principals. Whenever possible, when making design choices, these principals
are followed, which hopefully make a better language. As more principals are codified
and discovered, they will be added here later.

== Fail fast ==

Whenever possible, determine if a condition will cause errors later, and fail at
that point, instead of waiting until later. Be proactive in detecting errors, not
passive. For instance, if a condition can be checked at compile time, do the check
then, instead of runtime. A good example is the regex functions. If you hardcode a
regex, the compiler checks to see if the regex is invalid. If so, it produces a
compile error at that point, instead of waiting until runtime (which is how most
languages work).

== Design for intention, not implementation ==

Don't worry about the implementation, until the last minute. Program against intentions
first and foremost. Eventually, you do have to worry about the implementation, but
that should be the last thing on your mind, unless the implementation will cause
practical problems for the design. This should be a last resort however, as most
poor designs are poor because the designer catered to the implementation, instead
of making an elegant design first. In the commercial world, there usually is a balance
to be struck between design and practical implementation, but in language design,
where the stakes are much higher, avoiding a good design due to a complicated
implementation translates into exponentially greater complication for users of
the language, and so is to be avoided at all costs.

== Benchmark ==

Don't assume something is efficient or not. Benchmark it! There are so many factors
that can't be taken into account in the realm of theory, so the only way to get a real
answer for "Is this efficient?" is to run actual code, and get real, concrete timings.

== Optimize last ==

Assuming the previous two principals are followed, then the places to optimize should 
be clear. Places where the implementation was inefficiently coded, or overly complicated
tend to happen in the case of expressing a very elegant design that isn't catered to
the implementation. However, it may not be as important to optimize as you think, and
there may be much bigger bottlenecks causing performance problems. For a much
more in depth discussion of this, [http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?PrematureOptimization see here].

''Premature optimization is the root of all evil'' -- Donald Knuth

== Abstract ==

Whenever relying on outside code that is subject to changing, abstract against it.
This provides greater flexibility for you if it should change later. In general,
you should program for ''your'' intentions, not the external libraries intentions.
This is known as 
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aspect-oriented_software_development Aspect-oriented software development]
and is a great way to reduce future maintenance. Barring bug fixes, the general idea
is that already written code should never have to be changed, unless the core
design changes. However, practically, implementations do change, and if your code
relied on that, even if your code was designed perfectly, would still have to change.
Therefore, we want to minimize the code that has to change, by restricting the code
changes to a single module, that is, the interface between the bulk of your code,
and the 3rd party code. In cases where this is too huge a burden, you should at least
be aware of how tightly coupled your code is to the other code.

== Help the programmer ==

Don't use cryptic error messages. Use plain english error messages where possible,
and provide as many hints and tips as reasonable to help the programmer fix the
error. Distinguish between programmer errors and user input errors. Programmers
make mistakes, but the language shouldn't make assumptions either, if something
is unclear, report it, and ask the user to clarify before continuing.

== Use reasonable defaults ==

However, a programmer shouldn't have to specify every last little detail when telling
a program what to do. Reasonable defaults should be used, though they should always
be able to be overridden. A good example of this is in day to day speech. When
speaking with another human, if we give them a task, we often times leave off
details that don't really matter. For instance, if I told you to go water the lawn,
and there are two hoses in the garage, you're not going to need to come back
and ask me which host to use, you would just select one. However, if one were broken,
I would have to go out of my way to tell you to use the one on the left, but this
is an exceptional circumstance, and I shouldn't have to explicitely tell you every
detail in the typical case.

== Try not to special case things ==

When creating a new feature, first check to make sure that there is no design that
fits into existing paradigms. If there truly isn't, or there are justifiable exceptional
circumstances, then it's ok to special case it, but don't special case by default. When
this happens, it makes users have to learn a new paradigm, thus increasing the
complexity of the system, and making it take longer for users to become proficient.
One example of this in MethodScript is that almost everything is a function, so at
least when learning things initially, you don't need to know about operators.

This principal is quite deeply embedded into the language as a whole, for instance,
keywords are not implemented in the compiler, they are added to a list, and the compiler
processes them generically. This leads to increased ability to expand functionality,
and makes it easier to add new keywords to the language, without having to worry about
whether this will break any other code.

== Correctness and ease of use come before performance ==

This is not to say that performance is not important, but it is to say that it is less
of a priority than ensuring that things are correct, and that they are easy to use.

Often times, this is not actually mutually exclusive, you can usually make things correct,
easy to use, and perform well, but if one must sacrifice one or the other, the performance
should be sacrificed. More obscure, but performant mechanisms can be added later, for the
cases where performance really matters, but the default should be correct and easy to use.
Having a compiler can very often provide a way to optimize automatically, take the easy
to use input, and output a more performant, harder to read version.