The Federation Protocol is the way that the client and server speak with each
other. It is a text based streaming protocol. There are several steps required
to set up a connection, but once the connection is established, making requests
to the server is fairly straightforward. The version of the protocol that this
document describes is version 1.0.0.

== Connection Security ==

Connections to the master server are secured differently than the connections
to the slave server -- though the administrator may choose to use the same keys
for both. If connections to the master servers are secured, all master servers
must use the same private key. This is akin to DNSSEC system. Master server connections
are authenticated only one way. The client knows it is connecting to the proper
master server, but the master server does not care what servers connect to it.
When allowing a connection, servers must provide the master server private key,
if they are intending on requiring secure master server requests. When making a
connection to the host, the client should provide the public key for master
server requests. If the master server provides the private key, the client
is required to provide the public key.

Connections to the slave servers are secured both ways. The client ensures it
is connecting to the correct server (though this is admittedly slightly less
important), and the server ensures that the client is allowed to connect to it.
The client must provide the server's public key, and its private key. The slave
server connection must provide a list of authorized keys, and its private key.
This data is used to secure the connection both ways. If the server or client
requires secure connections, then the other must also use secured connections.

In addition, servers may require a password. This password must be shared between
the client and the server, and adds a small amount of additional security, though
it is highly recommended that PKI be used instead of simply a password, as the
password can be easily obtained by a man in the middle. If MitM attacks are not
a concern, a secure password is a valid way to secure the server, however. The
password may be used in addition or instead of PKI.

== Protocol Base ==

Once a connection is established, and data can be sent across the stream, all
data follows the same format. ObjectOutputStream and ObjectInputStream are used
to transfer data, though the only data allowed are Java primitives and Java Strings,
written using writeUTF/readUTF methods. At any point, if the client writes invalid
data, the connection is immediately closed.

== Master Server ==

The master server is a random process on the machine that listens to the master
port, and gives out server routing information to requesting processes. This
setup works much like a dynamic DNS system. The master server is established
by the first process to realize that there is no other process listening on the
master port. The protocol it follows is different than the slave servers. Since
connections are potentially long running, and we don't want to depend on the master
server remaining up for other connections, a client first makes a request to the
master server for the port that it should connect to, and then it disconnects
from the master server, and initializes a new connection to the correct slave
server.

Each slave server should regularly check that the master port is bound to, and if
not, it should spin up a master server in addition to the slave server it is already
running. This can be done in the heartbeat thread for the slave server. Each
slave server is responsible for picking a random unused port (usually between 
%%CONST|com.laytonsmith.core.federation.Federation.DYNAMIC_PORT_MINIMUM%% and
%%CONST|com.laytonsmith.core.federation.Federation.DYNAMIC_PORT_MAXIMUM%%), and
then registering that information with the file system. In standard MethodScript
servers, this will be the Persistence Network's registry, using the "federation.**"
namespace. It is assumed that the administrator will keep all server instances
pointed to the same registry. The registry contains information about each slave
server, including the server name, the slave port it is listening on, and a "last_updated"
timestamp, which if expires, voids the entry. The heartbeat thread, in addition to
checking for the master server, should update this timestamp on a regular basis.

A client request to the master server simply requests the port that the slave server
is on. This is required, since the request may come in from an outside host, that
wouldn't have access to the file system. The master server looks up the requested
server in the registry, reports the port, and kills the socket. 

If and only if the slave server only allows connections from localhost, may it
not start up the master server. On the other hand, if a client is connecting
to localhost, it can do the slave server lookup itself.

Once the client has determined the correct slave port, either by making a request
to the master server, or finding it itself it if it is a local request, it
can then move on to step 2 of connecting, making a connection to the slave server.

=== Master Server Protocol ===

If the server requires PKI, the client must use the server's public key during connection.
This encryption is inherent to the connection, and should be managed by the transport
protocol. The client must first write the string "HELLO", followed by the version string
of the protocol version it is speaking in. If the server supports that version, it will
respond with the string "VERSION OK", and if it doesn't support that version, it will respond
with the string "VERSION BAD" followed by another string, which is the error message, then
it will disconnect.

Assuming the HELLO and version check are successful, the client will write the string
"GET PORT", then another string, the server name it is requesting the port of. The
server will respond with the string "OK", then the integer port number, if it found the server, 
or the string "ERROR" and then another string, which is the error message, if it could not.
Then the connection is closed.

This entire process must happen within 1 second, or the connection may be forcibly terminated,
as it is assumed that the client has hung. This prevents misconfigured or malicious
clients from taking up too many server resources.

== Slave Server ==

The connection to the slave server is a long running connection that allows for
connections to remain open and run multiple commands after establishing and
authorizing the connection. The connection security to the server is handled inherently by
the underlying transport layer, using SSL. The authentication to the server (the two way authentication)
and the password, if provided, is handled using the application logic.

When a slave server comes online, it should pick a random port, then register that
port, and the server name with the central registry. A single MethodScript process
may have multiple servers running, though each will use a different port, and may
also have different connection rules.

=== Slave Server Protocol ===

After the client has determined the proper port to connect to via the master server,
it should initiate a new connection to the slave server. Upon initial connection,
it should write the string "HELLO", followed by the version string
of the protocol version it is speaking in. If the server supports that version, it will
respond with the string "VERSION OK", and if it doesn't support that version, it will respond
with the string "VERSION BAD" followed by another string, which is the error message, then
it will disconnect. (This is the same as the master server connection.)

Next, if PKI authentication is enabled, the client should write a byte array, generated by
signing the string "AUTHENTICATION" with the client's private key. The server will determine
if one of the authorized keys can decrypt this array properly, and if so, the connection will
proceed, and the server will write the string "AUTHENTICATION OK". If not, the server will write the
string "AUTHENTICATION BAD" followed by the string error message. If the server does not require
PKI authentication, then the client should write an empty byte array, and the server will reply with
"AUTHENTICATION OK".

The password should be written as a string. If it was not provided, an empty string
is written. The server will respond with the string "PASSWORD OK" if the password was accepted,
(or the password is blank, and not required by the server) or the string "PASSWORD BAD",
followed by a string error message if the password was invalid.

All actions up to this point must have taken less than a second, or the connection will be forcibly
closed, to ensure that misconfigured or malicious clients that are not allowed to connect
do not take up server resources. Once the password has been verified however, the connection
is allowed to idle, up to the keep-alive time, which is generally much longer, possibly indefinite.

Once the connection is established, the next thing written will be a string command, by the
client. If the command is accepted, the server will write the string "COMMAND OK", and then the client
may proceed with the command specific protocol. If the command is not recognized, the server
will write the string "COMMAND INVALID" followed by a string error message, but the connection
will NOT be closed, though the server will then again be waiting on a command.

==== SCRIPT ====

The SCRIPT command is the primary command used by the Federation system. This
causes a script to be executed, and the results returned. The script to be
executed has two parts, the variable list, and the script itself. The script
is sent first, since it may cause a compile error, and if so, there is no
point in sending the variable list.

The first thing that should be sent is the entire script. It may be pre-compiled
and optimized, or not, but the server will first compile the script locally, and
verify that it does in fact compile. If the script did compile successfully,
the server will respond with the string "SCRIPT OK". If the script did not compile,
it will respond with the string "COMPILE ERROR", followed by the string error message
that describes the compile error, at which point the server will then again be listening
for a command. If the script was ok, the client should then send the variable list,
serialized as a json string. The values in the variables should be serialized using
the standard construct serialization mechanism. The server will then build the
appropriate data structures from the data, and execute the script on that system.
If an exception was generated during execution of the script, the server will
respond with the string "EXCEPTION", followed by the json string exception object, which
will be the serialized form of the exception. If no exception was generated,
then the string "OK" will be written, followed by the json construct serialization
of the return value of the construct. If the construct did not return anything,
or returned void, an empty string is written.

==== GOODBYE ====

The GOODBYE command instructs the server to gracefully close the connection,
cleaning up any resources. If the client closes the connection, this will also
close the connection, though not necessarily gracefully.